Consciousness is awareness of our own existence, both internally and externally.  The mystery starts from how does the human brain, a collection of cells, work of neurons and synapses have the ability to control our thoughts and emotions.  There are four dimensions from the physical view in the universe defined by three spatial dimensions and one time dimension. Many neuroscientists, physicists, and scholars worked on this theory of consciousness.  Most recently physicist, Michael Pravica proposed a radical theory suggesting that consciousness may originate from hidden dimensions, linking to hyperdimensionality and string theory.  He cites the example of the perspective of a tightrope walker walking in one dimension and the perspective of an ant moving about the circumference of the rope.  He concludes that higher dimensions beyond the existing spatial dimensions could exist around us.

According to vedic physics, universe is multidimensional. There are 64 dimensions, but our senses do not have access to many other realms of universal reality.  It is believed that parallel universes may exist because of some incidents and Indian mythological references.  In Puranas and in Atharvaveda, there are 14 worlds.  It is believed that universe is infinite in itself where everything cycles like creation, preservation, and dissolution coexist. This view of the universe encompasses multiple planes of existence, each with its own unique attributes and inhabitants.

The dimensions that are necessary to produce the overall state of human consciousness from moment to moment are wakefulness, ability to have conscious mental experiences, including thoughts, feelings, and perceptions and have a sense of how different perceptions and concepts become woven together to create a seamless conscious experience.  For example, when awake, we are in a state of higher awareness, but as we fall asleep, both wakefulness and awareness subside.  Consciousness adds context to one’s existence.  We become aware of the place we occupy in the world surrounding us.

Rigveda reminds us that in our quest for knowledge, embracing the unknown is as important as seeking the answers, and that sometimes, the journey through the question is more enlightening than the answer itself.