India has arrived as a chess nation.  Thanks to the smart warrior generation that is showcasing India's prowess.  India reached a historic milestone by winning two team and four individual gold medals at the 45th FIDE Chess Olympiad International Chess Federation in Budapest.  For the first time ever, two Indians are in the top five chess ratings.
Gukesh, Arjun Erigaisi, Divya Deshmukh, Vantika Agrawal won the individual gold medals.  The men's team was formidable winning all the rounds meanwhile the women's team sealed the gold in the last round.  For both the teams, this was one of the most dominant performances in the history of chess.  This is the first time for India bag the double gold at the same tournament.  World chess legends like Susan Polgar, Peter Leko said India is the best chess nation and the team is very young, determined, brilliantly prepared and have a fantastic chemistry, so definitely, a very tough team to fight with.  Our own grandmaster, Vishwanathan Anand commented it as an unbelievable achievement.
This has been the greatest chess year for the country.  Apart from making history at the olympiad, three Indians made the cut for the Elite Candidates Tournament and two women in the Women's Candidate Competition.
Now moving to the real story behind all these proud moments for India, there are priceless stories with a lot of struggles and sacrifices faced by each of these individuals and their families.  Learning about them teaches our generation to be more grounded, more stuck to our roots, really ambitious and wanting to do something really great inspite of all the societal hardships and the materialistic show-offs of the financially sound peer groups.  These prodigies cleared the point that winning is breaking the psychological barriers that nothing can be achieved in sports or sports is not a career by using all the possible resources along with the advanced technology like AI.  They in their chat sessions spoke about how AI helped them practice rigorously and think different and smart along with time management.  Efforts of parents of these kids are commendable.  Every Indian now says our India won, but only the parent and coach of the child know what they have gone through, how many sleepless nights and stressful days they have gone through, how they taught the child to work under pressure, manage anxiety and criticism, play game as a game honestly and still, win  the game in the name of our country, for the nation, our India.